That was a spin through the data model,
but now we're going to get into one of the parts that I think
might be new to more folks in the room.
Who here today deploys code like on AWS?
I try.
You tried a little bit.
That's okay, totally fine.
So the --- so what we're going to go over here is a stack that we can
use in AWS using a few of their more popular product offerings to
stand up this application in production.
Now this is definitely a piddly process.
The reason why I think not too many people have deployed code into
production on Amazon is because it's kind of a pain in the butt.
There are a lot of different things you have to learn.
There's a lot of steps that you can screw up.
There's security groups and IM users and
configurations and command line interfaces,
and there's a hundred different ways you could screw it up.
So what we're going to do is go through one pipeline to get a Node.
js app deployed on AWS using a combination of Elastic Beanstalk,
which is essentially managed Amazon EC2 instances,
and they're talking to an RDS database on the backend and that
are part of an Auto Scaling group that we can configure to add
more instances to our application, if necessary,
to handle bursts in traffic and can scale down
based on our requirements as well.
So we'll talk a little bit about the production environment
that we're going to create at a high level,
talk about some AWS terms,
and then what we're actually going to do is step through
the provisioning of a new environment, which is going to take a while,
so we'll kind of do it together over the course the exercise.
Hopefully with the magic of television we can cut this up a little bit
later because each step does tend to take a little while.
But we --- the goal is for everybody to get the current running version of
their application deployed onto their own personal AWS account.
That is the desired end state for today, okay.
Alright, let's do this thing.
So,
first we'll kind of talk about the stack that we're
choosing and kind of where it sits.
Like on the spectrum of possible production deployment
environments for your web application code,
there's kind of two ends of the spectrum that you might be familiar with.
Like there's stuff that is completely 100% managed,
and you're really only interacting with it via API,
things like Firebase, which you see on the far right of the screen.
Firebase is you use an SDK to sync data to their backend,
and you don't actually manage any infrastructure at all.
You're just using their backend as a service.
There have been other things like Parse and Kinvay and lots of other
vendors in this space that have tried to like remove the need for a
backend in your application at all.
On the other extreme, there is virtual hardware that you manage yourself,
like DigitalOcean, virtual private servers,
or Amazon EC2 instances,
which are servers that you configure and deploy code to and SSH into
as if you are managing a fleet of physical servers.
Sort of more towards the middle is something like Heroku where
you are running an actual web application,
but it's on a fully managed stack,
like you can't SSH into the server which is running your code.
And the way that your code is run is actually completely abstracted to you.
You say Heroku, here's my application, run it for me,
and that works out really well.
And then kind of in between is this guy,
this weirdo called Amazon Elastic Beanstalk,
and this sort of the Amazon answer to Heroku,
but it's much closer to like managed infrastructure on your
end than it is to Heroku where there's sort of a veil of
secrecy which you can never penetrate.
So,
the environment for this application that we're
going to try out is a combination,
or the two key technologies are Elastic Beanstalk and Amazon RDS,
or Relational Database Service.
So,
Elastic Beanstalk is interesting in that it's more
configurable than most other platforms as a service.
Like at the end of the day,
even though you're using Elastic Beanstalk to configure it,
you're just running EC2 instances that you can SSH into that are just like
Linux servers that are ultimately under your control.
There's some management software that is running on them,
and the way that you interact with them can be a little wonky sometimes.
But ultimately you have a lot more control over the actual hardware that your
code is running on than you would in something like Heroku.
Also,
because it's part of like the Amazon ecosystem and you can
manage it through the administrative interface,
it's easier to make Elastic Beanstalk play with other Amazon resources.
And I finger quote easy because if you've ever been in the
Amazon administrative interface before,
you will realize that nothing is eve easy ever.
But if once you do figure it out, like it is actually pretty cool sometimes,
like the way that you can set up DNS with Route 53 and use S3
buckets and CloudFront for your static assets,
like there's lots of cool stuff that you can do,
but the learning curve is incredibly high.
And RDS is a pretty good service.
It's a performant way to run your database.
It's obviously highly available,
and it has managed software updates and snapshots,
so a lot of the questions about reliability of your database
kind of go away by using this managed service,
which has been working out pretty well.
So,
this is kind of the topology of the solution that we're going to create today.
the key technologies in the Amazon world that we're going to
be employing are an Elastic Load Balancer,
an Elastic Beanstalk environment,
which provisions Amazon EC2 instances within what's
called an Auto Scaling group.
So, we can define rules that say like alright,
once our --- the instances in our application are at like 60% usage of CPU,
that's the time to spin up another instance of the application.
So,
the Elastic Load Balancer is what will accept incoming
HTTP traffic from the outside world,
and then the Elastic Load Balancer will delegate those HTTP
requests to instances within our Auto Scaling group,
which again is managed by Elastic Beanstalk.
And then all of our EC2 instances are talking to an RDS instance
that we also create within our Amazon account.
So again, at a high level,
Elastic Load Balancer is shunting off HTTP traffic to all the
different EC2 instances within our Auto Scaling group,
all of which are communicating with an RDS instance on the backend. So, that's what we're trying to create, at least at a very high level.